In the 1920s, Jehovah's People began using a new technology to further the good news, radio.
We built our own station, WBBR, but we didn't stop there.
We made radio history by linking our station with others around the world.
By 1933, 408 radio stations were networked together on six continents.
Millions worldwide could literally spin the radio dial and tune into the same watchtower broadcast.
Sound familiar? Well, we've come a long way since radio.
However, networking our technology continues to play a huge role in supporting the good news today.
As the work expands at world headquarters, there's an increasing need to collaborate with others,
whether from nearby complexes, other branches, or with remote workers.
Having the ability to communicate easily and share electronic files with others anywhere in the world,
expedites our workflow and saves precious donated funds.
Under the direction of the coordinators committee, the computer department has been entrusted to care for this work.
So what efforts have been made to keep us all connected?
Under the direction of the coordinators committee, the computer department was given the responsibility to establish a solid digital foundation
that could properly support the increasing collaborative needs of world headquarters.
Just as it took several years of planning, design, and construction to complete the world headquarters site at Worldwick,
there has also been much computer-related work that needed to be accomplished behind the scenes,
and in advance to properly support the global reach of world headquarters and its related functions,
spanning over many countries and time zones.
In recent years, the establishment of various world headquarters departments has made this need even more apparent
since they depend on satellites around the world to accomplish their work.
Similarly, remote volunteers have been assisting branch departments with their heavy workload.
Previously, this dynamic work was dependent on individuals meeting and working together in one physical location.
However, thanks to timely direction, it has been possible to build a solid digital foundation to meet the organization's expanding needs.
We would like to mention five technologies that have been instrumental in making this possible.
First, in 2009, approval was given to provide a secure remote connection to the Bethel network from anywhere in the world.
Certainly, there is a great benefit for the Bethel family in using the Remote Access Service.
Initially, it was a small system that provide remote access just for a few number of Bethelites.
But as the time passed, it became clear that it was necessary to expand the service so that other members of the Bethel family could connect remotely from anywhere in the world.
This service has improved how the departments do their work.
For example, Bethelites can now work outside and then send files back to the internal network, seamlessly, in order that others can view, edit and work within.
Additionally, it allows computer support personnel to connect and provide technical assistance remotely.
Brothers and sisters with the skills and experience needed by the organization can volunteer themselves to work from home
and connect to the Bethel network thanks to these systems.
This has amounted to many cost savings.
This is Jehovah's work and it is exciting to see how he has used this technology to speed it up.
In 2010, a gradual deployment of PC-based video conferencing capabilities began to be rolled out.
Seeing each other face to face helps to improve our communication.
Some brothers have commented that when they can see facial expressions, body language, it helps them to make a better decision.
Originally, the objective of video conferencing was to reduce travel expenses.
Now, whether it's from branch to branch between complexes or even in the same complex, with the touch of a button, we can tie our brothers together, start a video conference, share our desktop and begin collaborating on work.
Video conferencing also helps us to be better connected to those who are in the field, such as remote volunteers or Bethel consultants.
This technology has not only reduced cost, but it also ties us together as a global Bethel family.
In 2011, the deployment of a unified login system known as the Bethel domain was approved.
Before the governing body's direction to move to a unified computer login, it was very difficult to share information, collaborate on a project, even to log on to a computer in another branch.
It is like our physical Bethel key. We can use our physical key in one site, but to go to other sites, we need to use our Bethel ID.
Similarly, while your branch log-on only worked for local resources, the unified Bethel log-on can be used in any branch.
Within just three years of the direction from the governing body, Bethelites worldwide were able to send email, plan meetings, share files, video conference, and take advantage of many other global systems now available to them.
I still remember when we migrated the first RTO in Cambodia.
You could see Bethelites eyes light up when they saw the Bethel address book for the first time and saw thousands of other Bethelites.
One said, now we are really part of the Bethel family. All of this has really contributed to the unity of the Bethel family, allowing them to meet the ever increasing needs as Jehovah speeds up the work.
Sending mail has always been an integral part of communication for the organization. The ability to receive Bethel emails on personal mobile devices was made available in 2012.
I think it would be hard for most of us to remember a time when we didn't have email on our mobile device, our phone, or our tablet.
For decades, email was a tool that was very necessary, but it was limited to just an office environment.
Email mobility has helped to speed up the work of Jehovah's organization. Back in 2008, 25 individuals were approved to receive email on their mobile device.
In 2012, it was extended to all branches as they were migrated to the Bethel domain. From just 25 users in 2008,
eight years later, the number of users exceeds 21,000. This valuable tool enables them to communicate regularly with their oversight and keep up with their work whenever and wherever they may be.
An internet-based software platform that would further enable collaboration with thousands of our brothers in the field was implemented in 2013.
This internet-based platform allows Bethelites and brothers and sisters in the field to work together using some of the same applications.
For example, convention committees are leveraging this platform to plan conventions in 84 branches.
Additionally, more than 84,000 Bethelites, remote workers, and other brothers in the field are using this software to accomplish their assignments.
It's expected that the number of users will grow exponentially in the future, allowing this platform to further support Kingdom interests.
The future looks even more promising as we continue to humbly seek Jehovah's direction while we take advantage of newer technologies to properly support the ever-expanding global reach of his organization.
We in the computer department consider it a privilege to have a small share in supporting the governing body as they continue to provide timely direction to the worldwide brotherhood in this time of the end.